So we've talked a lot now about different
categories of the view ecosystem.
But at the end of the day, right?
We have to remember that what makes
an an application enterprise level, or
frankly like production grade, is a lot of
time the fact that it is easy to follow
best practices and
that the conventions are followed.
Because the one thing you need almost
above anything else in an enterprise level
app is consistency.
If you don't have that level of
consistency, then you introduce,
as you would expect unpredictability,
into application architecture,
which means you're going to have
either a lot of technical debt or
simply communication debt over time.
Because as we know, as I mentioned
earlier, I've worked on teams where like
the contractors are working on
the other side of the world.
And so this makes timezone
overlap like near impossible.
And so if you can imagine if someone
writes something in a way that breaks
convention, and they're allowed to, and
then that enters the code base, but
then they're the only ones who
know understand or how to fix it.
This means now you're gonna basically
lose a whole day of development
over like these bugs.
And if you multiply that across
multiple developers like,
this cost me astronomical to development
processes and companies in general.
And so that's why we're devoting
this section to really talking
about the importance of making it
easy to follow best practices.
When it comes to best practices and
why they're important, right?
We've discussed some of those
things as far as they scale, but
as developers, right?
What does best practices mean for
us at the end of the day?
And oftentimes this means that
we are faster at development.
This means fewer bugs and at the same
time, because we have all these things,
this means you have more opportunities for
learning.
And because you have the ability to
experiment with things, and you know
basically the boundaries in which you
can experiment without breaking things.
But the problem with this phase best
practice, even though we use it a lot, and
this is more or less a convention
of saying it, I prefer the term or
the phrase chosen conventions
instead of a company.
It's because when you're
talking to your team,
you're trying to convince them
on certain things, right?
Let's say for example, you really like
the flat, flat component architecture.
If you were to go to a team who's
traditionally used to something like
Nested architecture, and
you're like This is a best practice,
there immediately creates this like
sort of us versus them mentality.
Because best right by default implies that
like this is the number one thing to do,
when as we talked a lot about, there are
reasons for either choosing one site or
another or frankly mixing two different
approaches in the case of the flat versus
nested folder directory structure.
And so that's why I think
chosen conventions or frankly,
when you're talking to them about changing
a convention, I think this is better for
stakeholder communication.
Because now it's not a matter
of asserting superiority or
whether one idea is
smarter than the other.
But whether or not like I think it
basically allows you to have those
discussions objectively about
which convention fits best for
their team, rather than whether or
not their team
is following a best practice which
inherently comes with some judgment.
And so of course,
this brings us to the question of
what makes a convention good, right.
And I put this quote because again, we
want to avoid this judgmental factor when
it comes to deciding what is the team
doing this is not necessarily good or bad.
But ultimately, like if we're talking
about the evaluation of conventions,
there are two primary factors
that contribute to whether or
not the convention is basically
a good fit for the team or not.
And the first thing is that they
enable to the developers to write
great code with a low barrier of entry.
And so the way to think of this one is
that when you're deciding on a convention,
if the onboarding process to figure out
how that works, is super tedious, right?
It has a lot of basically what they call
it a number of different steps to get
something done.
Each additional step that you add to
the process of following some sort of
convention is just one and
like the likelihood of them abandoning
that halfway through is much, much higher.
So the example of this is we talked about
automatically generating test unit tests
with your components, for example.
And so if you didn't have that this means
that going forward whenever a developer is
creating a new component by default,
if they're not using a generator,
they'll do like right click new base
button, base button w component, and
then they'll just develop, right because
that's, that's our natural flow is to just
like, do the thing,
solve the problem and then go forward.
But now if you're like, by the way,
every component should come with
some sort of basic unit tests.
And now you're forcing the developer
to not only then create that, but
then they have to go well.
All right, now I have to create
a test where did the test go?
And then you go, okay,
the test files here.
So I create the test.
What's the naming convention for tests?
Are we doing dot tests?
Are we doing dot spec and then on top of
that, then you have to also make them,
then think of the burden of like.
I don't really know testing because if
we're being frank about things a lot of us
entering into this field these days don't
necessarily come with like a hardcore
testing background.
And so testing unlike just the reality
is often becomes an afterthought.
So now you've added this other barrier,
where if they're not used to writing tests
and Jess, where they kind of have an idea,
but don't really understand,
now they need to go to a different test.
We need to copy it and
kind of modified it accordingly.
And at this point, you've noticed that
I've just talked through like four or five
steps just to create a unit test for a
component that they should be working on.
And they might lose hours
on this because as we know,
when you're working on a team, it's
sometimes tricky to get people's help or
sometimes people have like they
want to be self sufficient.
And so they might feel like
intimidated to ask for help.
And guess what, because we did not
automate this piece right this this easy
this best practice right now like based
on this like the general convention
of all components should
write should have unit tests.
Without automating it,
we fail this first valid qualification.
Which is that, the enable developers write
great code with a low barrier of entry.
In my experience when, developers
have a scaffold for them waiting for
them, especially with like unit tests,
they're like, that's kind of how it works.
And I just add another IP block,
and then I just describe it,
and then I pass my function,
and then okay, that's it.
Okay, done.
Moving on.
They can focus their energy on what
matters which is writing the test, rather
than creating the file and doing like all
this hurdles just to get to the test.
And so with that, once you have that
piece the other thing to really consider
then is, is it easy to refactor or
abandon because conventions come and
go The variables that come into play
as far as whether or not you should do
things a certain way or not can
change with either the team makeup,
maybe the department is changing
tech stacks or whatnot.
And so the more that these
conventions are easy to go,
you know what this convention
isn't working for us.
Let's abandon it.
The better it is because this also has
the added benefit of in the future.
If someone's like, yeah,
this is not working for us.
You don't want to make it extremely
painful for them to get out of it.
And so this is why a lot of
the conventions and best like,
best practices we talked about today.
Are lower barrier of entry,
like they more or
less try to follow that
low barrier of entry.
Right, so that if, for example,
you want flatter directory
structure with your components.
We're not saying take the time to
refactor everything onto flat, but
maybe start by not having so many
components nested and saying like, hey,
can we at least keep it to page level
components and seeing how the team feels
about that, and then they might
eventually move to the next thing.
Whereas if you're like, no, let's like
strip everything out of the directories
and then like move and then like then
you've created a situation where people
are going to be hesitant to try this
convention because in the event this goes
poorly, or even just poorly
like people just don't like it.
Now you've made it really
difficult to move backwards.
And so this is also my belief of tooling.
It should be easier to enter the ecosystem
it should be easy to exit the ecosystem
and conventions similarly
should be the same way.